Tic-Tac-Toe Tutorial:

Before describing everything, all results were observed through a localhost via running "./helper dev".

Created square component, which used a button for the square. When I attempted to add another button, it failed to do so, reason being that the multiple elements need to be enclosed within a fragment

After enclosing, I made a 9 button grid to create the tic tac toe grid. However, this didn't function as expected initially, as it made a row of 9 rather than a 3x3. To fix this, I had to create 3 seperate <div> groups, each with three buttons. Then, to accurately reflect the name of the component to what is actually happening, I changed the component name from square to board. The use of div allowed the grid to display properly.

To abstract the buttons(for readability), I created a square component and replaced the buttons in Board with the square component. In effect, this essentially did the same thing(3x3 board), and used a value prop for the square component, to make the board squares to be numbered 1-9.

To make the squares change on click, I added a handleClick function that was used in an onClick callback for the button, where the handleClick modified a variable via the setter(from useState, which had to be imported so that I could use useState rather than React.useState) and removed the value p removed the value prop(as there was no need for after using useState). This allowed my components to actually remember their state, which was necessary for the component to switch between the three states, X, O, and empty.

To set up the needed data structure to check whether someone had won or not, I created an 9 value array(via useState). For this to work, I had to revert my method back to using a value prop(as this data needed to be stored in the parent component, board, for the squares to work together). Then, I modified the square component to have a handleClick passed into square from board via a prop. This function initially only changed the first array value(so any click would only update the first square to X), but this was fixed by adding a parameter to handeClick(and making sure the callback in each square was an arrow function, not passing it down as a prop)

Next, I began to implement X and O(before this, only X was rendered). To do so, I added another useState to track which of the two is next up(because it alternates), then used that value in handleClick(where handleClick used that value to update when called, and flip the X to the other O or O to X afterwards). When I then ran ./helper dev, I could see the markings alternate between x and o each click, although this came with the caveat that the markings would overwrite each other. To fix that issue, I just added a check to the beginning to see if that square already held a value(so that the change of state only happens if the square is empty), which functioned as expected.

To actually check whether someone had won or not, I added a calculateWinner function(which essentially just checked whether any three squares in a line were the same value, X or O), and then added that result to the prior check at the beginning of handleClick(as the game must end early if a winner is found), and this worked as expected, where even if there were squares remaining, if a winner was found, no more squares were updated. Then, to display the winner, I added a status div that displayed either the winner and who it was, or who the next player is(in the case no winner was found yet).

Then, I began implementing the time-travel function, and to do so, I had to change the top-level from Board to a Game(new default), to track the board's past states. Before implementing the full feature, this change didn't affect anything from the user side(looked like the same one playable game of tic-tac-toe). Then, to actually track those past states, I added two variables(via useState so program could remember), tracking which player was next and the history, where the last array in history was the most current state of the board.

To make sure the data from Game was passed into board, I created props for board and refactored the code to work for the props instead, and made the Game component deal wiht the main board-level state changes via handlePlay, as well as passed in all of the needed props for board from Game. After all of this, the all of the state data is moved into Game, but the actual program still looks the same on the user end(essentially just refactored the code, it functions the same).

